Timekeeping for this meeting
https://coda.io/@dambroisej/ow-faculty-and-senate-meeting-interactions


DO THE MEETINGS MODALITY SURVEY for Spring 2023, please and thanks !  🙂
https://forms.office.com/r/8szKyDLtUR 
​​Everyone is welcome to fill out this survey.
Responses to this survey will be accepted until Friday Nov 11.


At-Large Member of Executive Committee
Jessica Williams stepped down from EC due to other commitments.  Since Danielle Lee was also previously elected, Danielle decided to continue on EC.  


Consultation Clause
I met with the President about the Consultation Clause.  The EC provided the 2006 original language proposed by faculty, and I also provided the President the current bylaws agreed by the previous President.  President Sams is looking into other campuses as well, and he is looking to construct parallel consultation documents for all constituencies.  With regards to faculty consultation, President Sams would like to have language that is more specific to explain which areas require faculty consultation.  He will provide a draft(s) soon, and we will organize an open comment period.  We will continue this discussion asap.


Meeting with EC and the President
The President requested for EC feedback on the topic of “How can Academic Affairs better support faculty?”.  The EC prepared topics based on the areas of consultation, org charts, VP and Deans searches, shared governance, and 360 review.  See attached document.  The President and the Provost agreed with the document, and next steps are currently being planned.


Faculty with immune compromised family member
A tenured faculty member approached both myself and the UUP President Martha Livingston for help in advocating for a reasonable solution to their situation.  The faculty member has an immunocompromised family member in the same household and they feared for the health and safety of their loved one, if required to be on campus regularly.  Martha and I both advocated to the Provost and the President about finding a reasonable solution.  The President, the Provost, the Dean, and the Interim HR Director, worked with the faculty member to find the solution of using partial family leave and this was agreed by the faculty member. 


Note that on the faculty senate website the UUP Family Leave/Work-Life Services Guide and others resources are linked
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/bylaws-policies-etc-1 




Course Feedback Forms, referred to ARPT
Last semester a group of faculty drafted a resolution about improving course feedback forms.  The resolution draft was discussed with ARPT, whose charge includes developing the forms.  ARPT is now working on this.


Issues Referred to APPC
In Spring 2021, the Faculty Senate approved a resolution to align the CR/NC deadline with the Withdraw deadline.  During those initial discussions faculty and students expressed concerns that the deadline itself is too early but there were concerns about how APPC could address multiple issues simultaneously.  The specific issue of the CR/NC and Withdraw deadline itself was referred to APPC but they were too busy to consider it then.  The issue is now being considered by APPC.  Note:  For example, this semester the withdraw deadline was 2 days before midterm grades were due.


In 2020-2021, Dean Frisken received concerns from SAS faculty about academic integrity and the group met to discuss their concerns.  The group also learned about Academic Integrity Learning Modules that were created by Marisa Glaser.  If you are interested for your students to complete the learning modules, contact Marisa.   The group also conducted a survey and the survey results were provided to APPC in Fall 2021.  APPC did not have time to consider this information last year, but they were provided the information again just recently. 


Reminder about Bylaws Review
The Bylaws Working Group (BWG), subcommittee of FRRC, is currently working on bylaws revisions.  Remember that the bylaws cover everything about how Senate and faculty governance works!  This is our opportunity to improve and update our processes.  We have had input from many different constituencies already.  If you have suggestions about topics for consideration, contact me and/or Alireza Ebrahimi, the Chair of the Bylaws Working Group.  BWG is compiling everything to provide to the Faculty for review in the Spring.
Now is the time !  Have ideas ?  Let us know!  We always aim to improve faculty governance!


Reminder about FUAC deadlines
See attached announcements !!


Two vacancies appointed to ARPT for Spring 2023 (one semester only), tenured SAS
* Youngjoo Kim
* Kathleen O’Connor-Bater
 




Faculty appointments to search committees.
Vice President for Enrollment Management and Marketing
* Ruomei Gao
Vice President for Student Affairs
* Marissa Hoffman
Executive Director of Human Resources
* John Friedman




Micro-credential Task Force II
The task force was drafted by CAP Chair Ryoko Yamamoto, Director of Distance Learning Ed Bever, and Assistant Provost for Student Success, and Administration Cris Notaro and provided to the Executive Committee on Oct 5, 2022.  On Oct 7, 2022, the charge and membership details were provided to the Faculty Senate, and a call to service was sent to all faculty.  


The following faculty self-nominated and are now appointed to the task force.
1 Member of the Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee: 
 - Ryoko Yamamoto (SAS, Faculty Co-Chair)
1 Member of the Student Life Committee: 
 - Fred Fleisher(SAS)
2 other Faculty (appointed by Faculty Senate chair such that at least one faculty from the SAS, the SOB, and the SOE is included)
- Anissa Lynch (SOE)
- Madeline Crocitto (SOB)






Please contact me if you are interested to serve as  
* LEC Social Sciences Representative 




Vacancy - Faculty Athletics Representative
Lenore Walsh can provide more info






DLTF Recommendations
The Distance Learning Task Force was created in 2021 while Mike Kavic was still FS Chair (I was Vice Chair at the time).  The Distance Learning Task Force finalized their recommendations in June 2021.  While Fall 2021 was my first semester as FS Chair, I made the mistake of not providing the DLTF recommendations to the Senate.  This is entirely my fault, apologies!  The DLTF did provide the recommendations directly to the Provost, but not the Senate.  While I thought I remembered doing this at Senate, when looking back at the Senate record I could not find it was presented and I realized my mistake.  The document is now available to view. The Provost did _not_ implement the revised Distance Learning Policy because of unclear language about modalities and course caps. We had similar conversations about modalities and course caps in the task force discussions.  However, the bulk of the Recommendations on the Indices provided by the DLTF are now actionable and possible to follow up.  Among other things, the DLTF recommended we create a joint governance committee on distance learning.  We are now discussing following the recommendations of the DLTF moving forward.