STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
College Council Meeting
Friday, September 18, 2020


Faculty Senate Chair’s Report to the College Council


Welcome to Officer-in-Charge, Dr. Teresa Miller!


Congratulations to Provost & SVPAA, Dr. Duncan Quarless and Associate Provost, Dr. Barbara Hillery! 


* Update on governance activities 


1. Faculty participated over the past year in a meaningful and productive way in the search for the new college president. The Faculty Senate would like to acknowledge the tremendous efforts of College Council Chair Mili Makhijani in guiding this search in a timely and professional manner. 


2. Faculty joined a task force to develop a SUNY OW reopening plan for Fall 2020. The interaction was productive and the reopening plan has proven to be effective and safe for our campus. This interaction is an excellent example of successful cooperation between governance and college administration. 


3. The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate hosted a full faculty meeting in August to allow faculty members to ask questions about the upcoming semester. Despite being held in the summer the event was well attended by faculty and administrators alike.


4. Budgetary challenges associated with the pandemic are of great concern to faculty governance. The Executive Committee has reached out to college administrations seeking to play a constructive role in addressing what is likely to be a dire near-term budgetary environment.


5. Strategic planning efforts continue in  spite of the pandemic. The SPAAR committee met over the summer and at the beginning of the fall semester to adapt its efforts in light of recent events.


6. Faculty governance remains focused on advocating that the required resources for remote learning are made available to faculty and students.


7. The effort to renovate and expand the Natural Science Building continues and governance is determined that momentum towards this goal not be lost even in light of recent events.