SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY FACULTY SENATE MEETING Friday, November 21, 2003 
12:30-2:40 pm 
Present: K. Velsor, E. Linger, R.J. Edelson, C. Butts, L. Cox, M. Rankin, J. Conforti, S. O'Connor, B. Hillery, L. Anker, M. Colaneri, C. Franco, I. Ahmed, A. Martínez, A.D. Oyero, A. Barbera, C. Mirra, M. Metlay, J. Lloyd, C. Sawyer, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, M. Crocitto, H. Lewittes, G. Snedeker, C. Bernard, C. Ottenheimer, T. Del Giudice. 
Visitors: P. Smith, R. Colon-Urban, J. Llana, E. Bever, M. Hegde, J. Feiner, N. Sacks, S. Torres, P. Sullivan, D. Moon, J. Fornar, B. Armandi, M. Adams, M. Jones, M. Marquez Bell, M. Kinane, D. Papademas, C. Cocca. 
Motion to approve the minutes passed. 
Report of the Chair (Kate Velsor): Agenda: Change of the agenda so that SUNY Provost Peter Saalens, who is on campus 
can address the meeting today. Successful Taste of Long Island fundraiser with 42 faculty participating. 200 people came to the reception for the new Hispanic/Latino Cultural Center. Future large reports will go to Senators only, and they can summarize for other members 
of their departments. These last attachments to the minutes cost $400 for copying. Suggestion that in the future long documents should be sent electronically. Senate was introduced to Sandra Kaufman, our new Director of Institutional Research; 
she has several years experience in the field, seven years on Long Island. 
II. 
Curriculum and Academic Planning (CAP) report (Mike Colaneri) The committee is bringing two resolutions to the Senate (see attached) for approval: 1) Resolution on outside evaluators for Five Year Reviews. Move that we use two 
rather than one outside evaluator, in order to bring our campus into line with the 
statewide praxis for five-year review. Discussion: Specifics should be clear regarding payment; and why only two? Anthony Barbera proposed a friendly amendment to add the words "at least" before "two 
outside evaluators ..." Amendment and the resolution passed 18 for, 0 opposed, 0 abstentions. 2) Proposal for Old Westbury Addendum to the University Faculty Senate Guide for the 
Evaluation of Undergraduate Academic Programs (regarding guidelines for five-year 
reviews (see attachment). Discussion: CAP will require departments to give them copies of the assessment. Clarification of the addendum point 2): We should add "the number of" before “summer 
offerings" and to keep track of those courses. Motion to adopt the resolution and the addendum as clarified in point 2. 
Vote: 17 in favor, 0 opposed, 1 abstention. 
III. 
Resolution on the OSSD (postponed from the meeting of October 17) Points raised in the discussion: 1. The wording "...not receiving adequate services" is legally contentious phrasing. 2. Last semester, the Senate passed a resolution with the same wording. 3. The essence for the Senate is whether we agree that the services are adequate without 
worrying about the legal implications. 4. Alternate wording suggested by Joel Ziev: WHEREAS, students with disabilities are entitled to appropriate services that enable full 
access to all the programs and services offered at SUNY; and WHEREAS the staff level is currently not adequate to offer the services that address the 
range of needs of our students, BE IT RESOLVED (to continue with the same wording). More discussion: 5. We have anecdotal evidence but no formal inventory of student needs, and it is clear 
that student needs have increased while the staff level has been reduced. 6. C. Sawyer suggested the wording: WHEREAS, while student needs have increased and there is clearly inadequate staffing BE IT RESOLVED THAT [drop points 1. and 2. with specific job titles and go right to 
point 3 of proposed resolution] Every effort be made to staff the office in accordance 
with the needs of the students it is designed to serve." Vote on the wording by J. Ziev: 20 for, 0 opposed, 1 abstention. 
IV. 
Peter Salins, Vice Chancellor and Provost for Academic Affairs of the SUNY system 
spoke to the Faculty Senate and answered questions. 
Report from the President (C.Butts) Salutes the faculty for the high attendance today. Thanks the faculty for patience on the heating problem. Thanks to the many who came to Taste of Long Island fundraiser. We did receive another 3.3 million, but still lack funds for publicity and other needs. "Philadelphia" play worked out well, as did the launching of the Hispanic/Latino Cultural 
Center hosted by Esther Gomez. Open House was successful – 700 people attended (encouraging - largest in years). Land is now protected as an historical district - we now are going through the processes 
involved with environmental protection and other agencies of stewardship. 
VI. 
UUP announcement by C. Franco - please attend the meeting at 12:30 on Tuesday. 
Motion to adjourn passed at 2:40. 
Respectfully submitted, Eloise Linger, Secretary-Treasurer and PES