STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY 
Faculty Senate Meeting: Friday, March 19, 2021 
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. , Location: Zoom 
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at: 
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive 
Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large 
(SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Roger Mayer (AC), Karl Grossman (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Deepa Jani (EN), Laura Anker (FY), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Renu Balyan (MACS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Rose Muzio (PEL), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA, TLRC), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Danielle Lee (LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA) 
Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Timothy Sams (President), Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Frank Pizzardi (VPEnroll), Usama Shaikh (VPSA), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE) 
Visitors: Manya Mascareno, Dinorah Martinez, Kinning Poon, Martha Livingston, Jacqueline Emery, Lenore Walsh, Lisa Chin, Rachel Brown Littenberg, Maureen Keefe, Yogesh More, Kathleen Lieblich, Youngjoo Kim, Shebuti Rayana, Gary Levanti, Regina Scarbrough, Cris Notaro, Becky Evans, Lee Blackstone, Joanne Spadaro, Jermaine Archer, Tom Murphy, Wayne Edwards, Rachel Kalish, Gilda Zwerman, Nicole Sieben, Lisandra Ramos, Rafat Sada, Carol Quirke, Svetlana Jovic, Linda Camarasana, Malini Kumar, Barbara Hillery, Lorenz Neuwirth, Claudia Marin Andrade, Penny Chin, Marissa Hoffmann, Edward Bever, Keisha Goode, Ashok Basawapatna, Rahwa Haile, Frank Sanacory 
Roster of Senators Absent: Xavier Marechaux (AE), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Hana Elgoarany (SGA) 
I. Call to Order at 12:30pm. 
● A moment of silence for the tragic events in Georgia. We stand in solidarity with the victims and the families.
II. Approval of Minutes for February 19th, 2021 
● Minutes approved as amended, with corrections provided in the chat. 
III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report 
● Middle States meetings will begin this Sunday and end Wednesday morning. The main focus is their report that they will be providing, and their 
presentation is open to the entire campus. This process is onerous but is an opportunity for growth for our campus. Many thanks to the entire campus community for participation in this crucial process. 
● Everyone is encouraged to nominate themselves and/or one other person for faculty governance ballots. One of our greatest challenges is faculty 
involvement, we need you! 
● As Faculty Senate Chair Mike attends cabinet meetings with President Sams and the rest of the cabinet. A new result that has come out of last week’s meeting is that’s the standing policy that students whose GPA fell below a 2.0 were forced to leave the residence halls has now been repealed. 
● We have a first draft of the bylaws revision which includes putting SPARR and the Budget Planning committee into the bylaws. Subcommittees, one focused on planning and one focused on budget, are also planned to exist. The bylaws revision will be sent to the bylaws revision working group by early April. 
● There have been two task forces that have been created recently. 
o Distance Learning Task Force: this was an outgrowth of the 
Innovation Labs discussions. All relative subcommittees of the senate have been involved (APPC,TLRC, CAP) in this joint committee of 
faculty and administrators. 
o Task Force on Strengthening Full Time Faculty, see Provost’s report. Since this was on a short timeline there was appointments instead of 
elections. UUP also has representation. 
● Please review the American Rescue Plan Act, there is a tremendous amount of information in the new law that can help our campus. We are all aware of the budgetary issues being face country wide, the state of New York has been his very hard. Congress passed and the President signed the American rescue plan Act which will address the budgetary issues that have affected our state which will trickle down to our college. 
● Persian New Year celebration will take place during wellness week. 
IV. Provost’s Report 
● We stand in solidarity with our Asian American neighbors. 
● Middle States (Visit March 21-24, 2021) (Accreditation impacts every single person and every single thing that we do as an institution.) 
○ Please be reminded that if they received a copy of the Meeting Schedule from Margaret on Wednesday, that means you are in at least one meeting and should review the schedule carefully because you could be in more than one. 
○ If you are in a meeting, they will receive a Zoom invite sometime before the meeting.
● Honors Convocation (April 29) (Virtual) – more details to follow after Middle States Visit 
● Regalia for faculty (particularly for faculty marshals) – Today! Today! Today! (Amanda Gist) 
● Regalia for commencement (May 23) Today! Today! Today! (Amanda Gist) 
Faculty members on Commencement Committee (anticipation: marking the milestone and centering graduates in the pomp and circumstance) Laura Anker Wayne Edwards Joe Manfredi 
Renu Balyan Mohamed Khalefa Shebuti Rayana 
● Residence Hall 2.0 GPA policy repealed 
● Distance Learning Task Force. Ed Bever and Jennie D’Ambroise are Co-Chairs. You will hear from them regarding the next steps for this task force. ● Fulltime Faculty Task Force (Presidential Task Force – College wide) Membership: 
■ Faculty: Sanja Cale, Veronika Dolar, Alireza Ebrahimi, Michael Kavic (Co-Chair), Maureen Keefe, Carol Quirke, Margaret Torrell, Ryoko Yamamoto, Fred Millán 
■ Professional Staff and Administration: Lillian Colella (HR), Barbara Hillery (AA) (Co-Chair), Pat Lettini (B&F), Rachel Littenberg (TS), Jo-Ann Robinson (President’s Office), Usama Shaikh (CDO) 
■ Charge: Prepare a set of recommendations for a hiring plan that will provide the framework to strengthen the fulltime faculty in accordance with the following objectives from the Strategic Plan: 
● Objective 2A: Enhance Faculty Effectiveness 
● Objective 2B: Enrich/Optimize Academic Offerings 
● Objective 2C: Showcase Campus as a Hub of Scholarly and Creative Works 
● Objective 3A: Sustain and Increase the Diversity of Faculty and Staff 
■ Propose a vetted set of mission critical metrics that are responsive to our current austere budgetary conditions but also support an equitable distribution of full time faculty across the campus, which may include: ● Student FTE served by the department 
● Curricular areas of high demand and strategic program initiatives, as evidenced by recent and sustained trends in student enrollment, prospective programmatic growth areas and overall growth in 
degrees and programs 
● Defining evidence-based prioritization for critical replacement hires
● Five year trends in tenure stream faculty by department 
● Adjunct faculty taught sections within departments approaching or exceeding 40% 
● Accreditation driven (either to sustain accreditation or maintain progress towards achieving it) 
● Broader service impacts (e.g., FYE/CALL, core curriculum 
LEC/GE) 
● Other revenue-generating considerations (e.g., curricular 
credentialing for non-matriculated students and online curricular 
programming) 
● Focus on high impact hires that would substantially raise the 
profile and activity level at the college. Initiate a dedicated effort to recruit high levels of talent in search processes 
■ Re-assess the strategy to use lectureships, and visiting professorships as a means to improve the faculty-student engagement, overall academic service for students, the scholarly work of the faculty, long-term college reputation for excellence, and support for the faculty diversity plan. (Subsumed in items 1 & 2) 
● Budget Activity 
● This current academic year: During this contingent budgetary period, AA has met regularly with the EC, including this past week, to collaborate on stimulus spending plans, tied to strategic planning and spending initiatives. 
● Budget Priorities: Academic Affairs has presented the following as the preliminary priorities, primarily based upon various interactions with faculty and staff 
● IT Upgrades 
● Software Service Need 
● Student Development & Success: Academic Support Service 
Needs 
● Faculty Development Funding (Experiential Learning/Research Recovery funding -Teaching PD) 
● PRODiG 
● Committee: (established ad hoc codify within shared governance) ● Faculty membership and term 
● Revisit stewardship over the faculty diversity plan 
● Include in selection process and mentorship of fellows 
● Fellowship Program (21 system applicants, 5-7 interested in OW: 2 have ranked OW as their 1st choice, 2 have ranked OW as their 2nd choice, 1 has ranked OW 3rd choice, the other two at the 4th and 5th choice) 
● Enrollment Services and Faculty Involvement in Outreach (Frank Pizzardi)
● For accepted students 
● Class visitation 
● Virtual Open House with breakout rooms (either by major or 
clustered – Humanities, Business, Education, Social Sciences, 
Natural/Physical Sciences,) 
● For recruitment 
● Establish Faculty “Roadshow” Series – short virtual visits to 
school district classroom 
● Faculty guest lecture series created and strategically offered to 
expand outreach for new enrollment opportunities, and to 
strengthen existing ones 
● Frank Pizzardi speaks about faculty involvement with student 
recruitment. For example, faculty who would like to allow virtual 
student visits please contact Frank. We also do an open house for 
accepted students. Usually this is on campus with a meal, but we 
will be doing it virtually over 4 or 5 sessions based on school of 
their major or with Student Affairs. Dates will be announced early 
next week. 
● Questions from faculty about whether PRODiG will continue. Yes, we expect it to continue. 
● Question from faculty about whether sabbaticals will change. We do not think sabbaticals will change. 
Note: President Sams indicates in the chat that he will issue a statement regarding the tragic events in Georgia. 
V. UUP Report 
● Labor management met with Dr. Sams. There is a new era of openness. ● We saw DSI and compression in our recent paychecks. UUP published the DSI and compression awards. Note that D stands for discretionary by 
management, UUP has no input into these amounts. Discretionary amounts can be used for good, or they can create difficulties. Some campuses 
distribute them across the board to all members. Our former Provost 
sometimes used the funding to lift up some of the lowest paid members. 
Another way is to ask Deans and managers to give suggestions, this is what we did. Some members feel that their work is not recognized. 
● We have a call and an email campaign for funding. Please participate. ● There is a town hall with Senator Shumer on the 27th. Details will be announced. We look forward to working with Pres. Sams and the 
administration on funding advocacy. 
● Pre-retirement workshops are virtual now, statewide and monthly. 
● Members should have received a ballot for chapter elections. You can nominate yourself or someone else. 
● We are a vaccination site, this is very exciting.
VI. SGA Report 
● Kalief Metellus is the recipient of the Chancellor’s Award, congratulations! ● SGA awards show is upcoming. 
● SGA elections are upcoming including a new SGA President. 
● SGA drive-in movie night is being planned. We can have up to 500 people on campus including faculty, staff and students. 
● More student clubs in the fall semester. 
● SGA President comments to the sponsors of the Anti-Racist Resolution. Please note that SGA has not voted on it , but it was conveyed that SGA does support it. Some people were removed from the PARITY committee, and this is not shared governance. Also the resolution was written without data or input form Student Affairs. The student code of conduct has been reviewed and changes were never submitted. 
● Be aware that SGA is not only the SGA President, there are many members of SGA. The SGA President may not be able to sit in on every meeting. 
● We need shared governance in every part of the college, not just some parts of the college. 
● Faculty comments that we don’t know about this resolution. The resolution has not yet been presented to the senate yet. We look forward to helping SGA and faculty to communicate well and engage. SGA President agrees that collaboration is welcomed. 
● Faculty from the PARITY committee replies thanking SGA. The resolution in question comes from various faculty, not just PARITY, regarding student issue that have occurred. There was data collected based on 10-30 years of 
observation based on campus experiences of students who feel policed. We did make a lot of changes to the resolution. We are interested in continuing the relationship with students. Not all students are in SGA due to work and family obligations, and they have been advocating for themselves. We are 
thinking about how to further student engagement across opportunity, 
especially for students who have had bad experiences. 
● FS Chair supports collaboration from all parties involved. 
● SGA President replies stating that they asked for the data, but they were not provided with data. Under the new President of the college, perhaps we should not bring up old issues. Some of the issues in the resolution might be left over from the previous President. Faculty replies congratulating the SGA President for his leadership, and that the data can be provided, perhaps there was a miscommunication regarding the data. We want to honor the 
experiences of students. Just because there is new leadership does not mean that we shouldn’t honor student experiences. We want to learn from previous experiences so we can move forward. 
● SGA requests that the Dean of Students be allowed back on PARITY committee. Faculty comments that this might not be the best venue to discuss this. FS Chair asks if we can move the meeting along. Faculty notes that students are invited to the PARITY meetings. With administration there is a power relationship that also needs to be considered so that everyone can feel safe to speak. The PARITY committee wants to create a safe space for people
to speak openly. PARITY did also offer to meet with administration three times per year to continue to pursue collaborations. 
● FS Chair offers to help various parties get together and resolve these issues. 
VII. TLRC Resolution 
● The Resolved of the Resolution on Adjunct Compensation for Pedagogical Development is read into the record. This resolution will be voted on next time. Please share with your department and come back with feedback. 
VIII. CAP Resolutions 
● Resolutions are read into the record. Reminder that Program Announcements (PA) stage is just the first of a four step process. The full proposal will be available at a later step. 
o CAP Resolution: PA BS in Public Health 
o CAP Resolution: PA BA in Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies 
o CAP Resolution: PA BA in Black Studies 
o CAP Resolution: Proposal for Micro-Credential in Workplace 
Communication and Information Technology 
● Faculty comments that for both the Women and Black studies programs, the list of courses are few that address world issues as well as African Studies, language, and history. Much of these studies involve global issues, so in the future the programs should include courses with global and other cultures too. The suggestion is welcomed for the future. 
● Some qualtrics data was used to formulate these programs based on student interest. 
● Faculty ask who will teach these courses, and who is qualified. Students will learn how to use data and dashboards in a corporate environment. 
● All four of the resolutions are adopted with unanimous consent. 
IX. Announcements 
● Climate Action conferences will be announced next week. One is an NY State conference on April 7th regarding climate solutions and green recovery. The other is called SEAS NY meaning Student Efforts to Address 
Sustainability in NY on April 17th. Look for materials soon. 
● Registration for summer is open, encourage students to register. Keep in mind the micro-credentials that students might want to complete. 
Adjournment