Hi all,


I hope everyone is having a smooth and productive end to the semester. The upcoming senate meeting will be a little unusual and I want to alert you to some important issues related to the meeting. We will be considering an enormous (record breaking!?!) number of resolutions for a single meeting, 14! This is in addition to the call for nominations and election for senate chair. To accommodate this many resolutions I, in consultation with the Executive Committee, have decided to forgo all reports at the beginning of the meeting. There will be a full slate of reports at the final meeting of the year on May 28th. Because there are so many resolutions we are asking senators to make a special effort to carefully read and gather feedback for the resolutions from your home departments before the meeting. The vote for all resolutions not passed by unanimous consent will be held online later in the week following the meeting to give additional time for consultation and reflection. Your subsequent vote will be of obvious importance. I apologize for adding to your workload at this most busy time of semester. Your efforts on behalf of your fellow faculty are very much appreciated! 


The usual meeting announcement is below. 


Best,
Mike Kavic
FS Chair


You are invited to the Faculty Senate meeting Friday, May 14th from 12:30pm-2:30pm!


Register in advance for this meeting:
https://suny-ow-edu.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJMsdemopzMqGtEMgJyryBLtgF-RB7WHOM9Y
Action items:
* Read all resolutions, gather feedback and come ready to discuss and offer amendments.
* Nominate yourself or a senator for senate chair. See attached document for a summary of the position. (Must be currently a serving senator of academic rank.)
* Stay for the afterparty!
Agenda Highlights:
* Election for senate chair
* Many, many important resolutions
Meeting Documents:
Agenda
Draft Minutes for April, 9 2021
Role of the Faculty Senate Chair and Procedure for Nomination_Election - Spring 2021
FJC Resolution
OER Report & Motion For Renewal
Resolution to Create an Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources (OER) Faculty Committee
Resolution for the IT Governance and Advisory Committee
CAP Res PA BA in Media Production NFAV w PA
CAP Res MC in Forensic Accounting w Proposal
CAP Res for Minor MC Revision Process 20210422
CAP Res Certificate in 3D Digital Fab and Design w Proposal
CAP Res BS in Physics w Proposal
CAP Res AC in Accounting w Proposal
Resolution on Flex Modality Training
Flex Resolution Support Document - Old Westbury Institutional Readiness Assessment Implementation Plan
Flex Resolution Support Document - Old Westbury Distance Ed Policies 4_8_16
Flex Resolution Support Document - Modality Definitions Beginning Fall 2021
Flex Resolution Support Document - Distance Learning Joint TF Proposal
APPC Resolution to Adopt the SUNY FACT2 Recommendation on Requiring Cameras
APPC Resolution on Establishing Limits to the Use of Credit-No Credit Toward Degree Completion
APPC Resolution on Changes to Language in College Policy Concerning the Consequences of Probation
Resolution to Enhance and Modernize the Research Enterprise at the College at Old Westbury
FUAC Revisions to the 2016 Bylaws 2-14-21 (5-10-21)
PRODiG Resolution
PRODiG Resolution Supporting Document 1
PRODiG Resolution Supporting Document 2


Questions? Concerns? Email: kavicm@oldwestbury.edu