SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury 
Faculty Senate Meeting Friday, April 25, 2003 12:30 p.m-2:20 p.m. 
Room C 102 Academic Village 
Present: Calvin O. Butts, III, R. Colòn-Urban, K.Velsor, M. Crocitto, K. Wood, P. O'Sullivan, C. Wright, M. Barrett, J. Conforti, R. J. Edelson, C. Franco, I. Ahmed, A. Martinez, B. Joseph, S. Pryor, C. Sawyer, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, S. Mahmoud, B. Kalmans, G. Snedeker 
Visitors: R. Gonzalez, R. Brown, M. Colaneri. L. Davis, W.P. Kimmins, M. Veve, C. Keyes, L. Anker 
1. Approval of minutes for Friday, April 4, 2003 
This item was deferred due to the lack of a quorum at the start of the meeting. 
. 2. Report from the Faculty Senate Chair (R. Colòn-Urban) 
The Chair reported that the Executive Committee met with the President on April 16, 2003 and discussed the following: 
Budget and Planning Committee 
Positions were eliminated and then advertised at lower salaries to meet cuts imposed on the College. The Senate is awaiting comment about this process from T. Del Giudice of the BPC. 
Difficulty with attendance at Senate meeting 
The Executive Committee explained that senators receive other assignments from chairs, which may conflict with Senate meeting dates and times. 
Moving the Administration of OSSD to Academic Affairs 
The President will wait for the new Academic Vice President to take office. 
Involvement of faculty governance 
Senate was not consulted about: providing members to serve on the search committee for the new AVP; the cutting and advertising of positions; and, the creation of a task force to examine the three-or four-credit systems when CAP was in place. 
The chair raised the issue about how Senate resolutions are handled by the Administration. Senate expects a response. There has been no historical consistency about whether responses are answered in writing. The AVP noted that there was no policy to give a response within a period of time. Some resolutions have budgetary impact and take time to respond to. 
3. Report from the President (C.O. Butts, III) 
The President thanked Dr. Colòn-Urban for her leadership in the Senate and at Foundation and College Council meetings. 
Enrollment grew for the second year. The plantings of Earth Day will create a favorable impact on the visitors at our Open House. Although the President is not pleased with increases in tuition and rates for new dorms, he doesn't think the two combined will decrease enrollments. We have already had two events in the Student Union, an exciting place. 
Research programs received $2.5 million in funding, thanks to the faculty. Funding for professional development is nearly $120,000, the highest it has ever been. Six hundred people are graduating Ma 
The President expressed appreciation for faculty efforts inside and especially outside the College. Recent events arranged by the faculty on the campus such as an Engineering Fair, visits by Ira Glasser and Daniel Ellsburg, the film festival, and art displays create the excitement we need. 
The President again emphasized it was never his intention to go around the faculty. He wants to cooperate with CAP and does not take resolutions lightly. He is focused on the issues about students with disabilities. He encouraged faculty to contact him with questions and will respond as quickly as possible. The President thanked Patrick O'Sullivan for his excellent work as acting AVP. 
Len Davis explained why some people were dismissed and then positions advertised. The State Department of Budget demands for a 5% cut created an emergency situation. Examined personnel in various areas to arrive a plan that was as painless as possible. The Senate Chair noted that this was not the BPC minutes. 
Faculty raised the issue of event schedules and coordinating activities. Craig Wright noted we lacked a master campus activities calendar and that Tardis Johnson is conduit for the common hour. Len Davis announced the development of a college-wide policy for obtaining and using college facilities. Senators encouraged better coordination and communication of events and policies. 
4. Report from Academic Vice President (P. O'Sullivan) 
The Acting AVP thanked the President for his comments and confidence in him. 
The report from the SED site visit is due shortly and will be shared with faculty. It will contain three parts: regulation, recommendations, and suggestions. We expect the report from the SED site visit at the end of next week and it will be shared with faculty. It will contain three parts: regulation, recommendations, and suggestions. The process is that after the report an abstract will go to competing colleges informing them of our new program; after thirty days to Board of Regents where it is now on their June calendar, then 
20W 
on to the Division of budget; the Governor who notifies SED and System Administration; then SED registers the program. Should be accomplished by end of July for classes beginning September 5. 
In response to question about the M.S. in Special Education, the AVP responded we are in consultation with System Administration and SED for feedback. Teacher Ed faculty noted they were informed that the College had withdrawn the proposal. The AVP explained that it was never approved; the request was withdrawn but not returned because we asked for comments. 
5. Report from CAP Committee (M. Colaneri) 
The 3+3 Prelaw proposal is the same as was presented last May. Some sample schedules changed to allow for flexibility. No additional faculty lines are necessary. According to L Anker, the reason for sample schedules is to demonstrate how students may meet general education and major requirements. The proposal was approved: Yes (14); No (O); Abstain (1). 
6. Resolution on OSSD (B. Joseph) 
The same resolution distributed with the April 4th agenda was read. It was taken directly to a vote since it had been discussed at the previous meeting which lacked a quorum. It was unanimously approved: Yes (16); No (O); Abstain (0). 
7. Report from Budget and Planning committee (T. Del Giudice) 
This report was deferred. 
8. Nominations Committee (K. Velsor) 
Additions to the April 14th candidate slate were invited with the proviso that nominated individuals know of the nomination and agree to serve. The following individuals were nominated: 
ARPT: Minna Barrett, Gay Wachman (both tenure) CAP: M. Veve (TEP) andC. Hobson (ELS) Faculty Rights and Responsibilities: Jane Weiss (ELS) Faculty University Awards Committee: Onita Hicks (ELS) Library: Margaret Torrell (ELS) Student Life: Margaret Torrell (ELS), M. Veve (TEP) TLC: M. Veve (TEP), Jane Weiss (ELS), Carl Mirra (Social Studies) 
9. Old Business 
The Senate Chair introduced the President-elect of Student Government, David Oyero. He described changes in student government and asked the faculty's help in promoting more of a student presence on campus. Faculty were invited to a meeting next week (time and date to be announced). 
The Chair announced that the mission statement was endorsed by the executive committee and asked the senators to support it. Laura Anker read the mission statement which was approved by acclimation. The Senate thanked L. Anker and M. Kinane for their work. 
nators were reminded to submit program recommendations on the three-four-credit system, please submit program recommendations to the Executive Committee. 
UUP Report (C. Franco) 
There will be a march on Albany on May 3rd, with buses provided and leaving the campus at 7:30 a.m. Contact Phyllis Kurz in the Bursar's office. 
According to our local legislators, we are close to settling a budget which will restore some of the $183.5 million in cuts which will avoid job losses. Even if the TAP increase goes forward ($900) we will have a shortfall, which will eliminate 1,000 positions. A tax increase will have to make up the differences. A proposed income surcharge which would disproportionately impact downstate, is now across the board. 
10. New Business 
R. J. Edelson announced the opening of the Children's Center. The hours listed on the information sheet are those in which special ed certified teachers will be there, to stay open later would use other staff. Need to request other hours. Suggestions for publicity were offered. 
Craig Wright announced that County Executive Tom Suozzi will be on campus on Monday, April 28 at 12:30 p.m. in the Maguire Theater. 
Madeline Crocitto reminded faculty to contribute to the Faculty Fund. 
The meeting was adjourned at 2:20 p.m.