Credit/No Credit Resolution (Spring 2021) 
Whereas Old Westbury is the most diverse SUNY with the highest proportion of students receiving some  form of financial aid, and an historic social justice mission that commits the College to the values of  access, equity, empathy, anti-racism and intercultural understanding; 
Whereas the Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the campus community to reevaluate policies that  disproportionately impact low-income families and people of color and thus magnify gaps in educational  achievement and access to academic resources; 
Whereas the current Cr/NC policy states that “A student may elect a credit/no credit option with the  permission of the instructor. The student’s request (form found on the student portal) must be filed in the  Office of the Registrar before the end of the third week of the semester. After the third week, this  contract cannot be approved or cancelled. Courses taken for a grade of CR or NC do not affect the  GPA. Specific restrictions on the credit/no credit option vary by department major. Students should  consult with an academic advisor in his/her major program.”; 
Whereas the withdrawal policy states that (without faculty approval) “... up to the seventh week of  classes, a student may withdraw from one or more courses by filing an official withdrawal form (found on  the student portal) with the Office of the Registrar ...”; 
Whereas maintaining the requirement for instructor approval for Cr/NC helps to ensure the student receives faculty recommendations, and extending the Cr/NC deadline enhances the opportunity for the  student to track their progress in the course and consult with an advisor about financial aid regarding the  implications of taking the course Cr/NC; 
Whereas by aligning the Cr/NC deadline (with instructor approval) with the seventh week withdraw  deadline (without instructor approval) students may be encouraged to stay enrolled in a course by  switching to Cr/NC instead of withdrawing resulting in increased course completion; 
Whereas both actions of switching to Cr/NC (with instructor approval) and withdrawing (without  instructor approval) from a course require manual intervention from the Registrar’s Office, and by  allowing the student to choose between the two options in the seventh week it is estimated that the work  for the Registrar’s Office will be streamlined; 
Whereas messaging and communication of policies to students will be simplified if the dates for  switching to Cr/NC (with instructor approval) and withdrawing (without instructor approval) coincide; 
Be it resolved that the Faculty Senate urges the Administration to change the Cr/NC policy to “A student  may elect a credit/no credit option with the permission of the instructor. The student’s request (form  found on the student portal) must be filed in the Office of the Registrar by the seventh week of the  semester, the actual date to be concurrent with the deadline for requesting a withdrawal. Note that  Cr/NC cannot be selected after this seventh week deadline. Once approved, the Cr/NC contract  cannot be cancelled. Courses taken for a grade of CR or NC do not affect the GPA. Specific restrictions  on the credit/no credit option vary by department major. Students should consult with an academic  advisor in his/her major program.”; 
Sponsored by: Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate; Academic Policies and Practices Committee (APPC); Kalief Metellus, SGA President; Laura Anker, First Year Program
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS 
from Undergraduate Catalog 2018-2020, page 49 
Withdrawal 
W, signifying withdrawal, may not be assigned as a final grade. After the end of the add/drop period and  up to the seventh week of classes, a student may withdraw from one or more courses by filing an official  withdrawal form (found on the student portal) with the Office of the Registrar. The Registrar will then  record a W on the student’s transcript.  
Please Note: Nonattendance in classes does not constitute withdrawal.  
In extraordinary circumstances, the Registrar will record a W on a student’s transcript after the seventh  week of the semester, but prior to approximately two weeks before the final day of classes, if the  instructor and the Office of Financial Aid have approved the withdrawal and the student has led the  necessary form with the Registrar by the deadline.  
Any student who has not withdrawn officially from a course will remain on the final grade roster and will  be assigned a final grade of F from the instructor or NC if the student has led the appropriate CR/NC  contract. Withdrawals may affect a student’s subsequent eligibility for financial aid awards. Grades are  final as submitted.  
See the section on Financial Aid in this catalog for a description of the effect of W grades on continued  eligibility for student financial aid. A grade of W does not affect the GPA.  
See the section on Financial Aid in this catalog for a description of the effect of W grades on continued  eligibility for student financial aid. A grade of W does not affect the GPA.
The above resolution was adopted by the senate on Feb. 16th, 2021 with the following vote totals.
22 in favor
2 abstain
0 against