Timekeeping for today’s meeting
https://coda.io/@dambroisej/ow-faculty-and-senate-meeting-interactions 


PRODIG appointments
* Fred Millan, Jasmine Mitchell, Deepa Jani, and Sylvie Kande were appointed for 1 year


CAP SOE Appointment
* Anissa Lynch was appointed


Presidential Committees update


The current descriptions of the Presidential Committees (PCs) are available on the President’s website. https://www.oldwestbury.edu/office-president/presidential-committees 
 
In the 2021 Fall semester the Executive Committee (EC) provided a list of concerns about overlaps of the PCs charges with existing Faculty Senate committees.  At that time, the President’s Office agreed to limit the scope of the Presidential Committees and The President assured us that if any issue arose that is under the purview of an existing committee it would be referred to the appropriate existing Faculty Senate committee or other existing committee.  The President’s Office expressed their desire to see ideas for improvement at Old Westbury arise through the PCs, especially those issues lying outside of the scope of the Faculty Senate and other existing committees.   
 
The Presidential Committees got off to a late start, only having their first meeting in the Spring 2022 semester.  The President’s Office requested that each PC identify one main objective for the Spring semester.  Since some committees only just got started on their one objective in Spring, the President’s Office requested that current members continue for one more year.  The Executive Committee agreed.  The EC also got the sense that some faculty serving on PCs wished to continue to complete the work they had begun. 
 
At the end of the Spring 2022 semester the Executive Committee revisited concerns about reducing redundancy in the PCs charges.  I met with Jo-Ann Robinson, the Executive Vice President & Chief of Staff, together with Runi Mukherji (Vice Chair Spring 2022, current Univ. Faculty Senator) to review our suggestions and concerns.  Since the PCs had not yet reported their final objectives and outcomes in the Spring semester, Jo-Ann requested to continue the discussion later once we had heard those outcomes from the PCs.  


Last week we met with Jo-Ann to follow up.  We identified some areas of the Faculty Experience committee charge which are overlapping with the IT Governance Advisory Committee (ITGAC) and the Full Time Faculty Task Force (FTFTF), for example.  The final charges for PCs will be updated on the President’s website as soon as they make the changes.  Changes will also be discussed in the PCs, and the suggested changes have no impact on the outcomes and objectives the PCs identified for themselves last semester.   
 
Last week when we met with Jo-Ann we did not have time to discuss specifically the overlap of the PC Student Experience Committee with the faculty senate Student Life Committee.  We will be discussing this soon. 


For the following roles on Presidential Committees, we received no nominations.  
Contact me asap today if interested.


Advisory Committee on Campus Safety
     3 faculty vacancies
 
Covid-19 & Environmental Safety
     3 faculty vacancies (1 nomination received)
 








—-------- Stop Here for questions —---------




























































—----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PREPARED STATEMENT  
regarding lack of sufficient consultation regarding Governor’s funding
—----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Old Westbury is currently experiencing times of unprecedented change.   Locally we have new initiatives on campus, new procedures, and a new administration.  Globally we have an ever-changing political and health landscape, the resulting urgent budgetary situation, and new shifts in student demographics.  While faculty have been included in more conversations about the direction of the college and administrative decisions lately, I am concerned that there does not exist a mutual understanding about the appropriate procedures and processes for inclusion of faculty consultation. Especially given the many impactful challenges we face, it is not sufficient to simply have good intentions and loop faculty just in the nick of time.  It is time that we step up and reemphasize a more robust understanding of faculty's roles and responsibilities in conducting the business of the college.


Faculty have more than just a want or desire to be involved, we in fact have a responsibility and an obligation. According to the SUNY Board of Trustees Policies(January 2022), Article VI p. 14.,
"The University faculty shall be responsible for the conduct of the University’s instruction, research, and service programs."
....and from Article X p. 20...
"The faculty of each college shall have the obligation to participate significantly in the initiation, development and implementation of the educational program."


The most recent event(s) of concern were regarding the new state allocated funding announced by Governor Hochul.  President Sams outlined the amounts and presented pre-drafted priorities at the Cabinet meeting (9/6), and the Provost summarized these priorities to the Provost Council (9/7) and Faculty Senate (9/9).  Subsequent to the Cabinet meeting, I requested consultation regarding this funding matter with the appropriate governance bodies: the Planning and Budget Committee (PBC) and its subcommittees, and the Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP).  Luckily these bodies moved quickly and urgently to formulate their recommendations about the new funding.  However, still to this day, faculty have never viewed the original language of the requirements provided by the Governor's office, and we still do not have a clear understanding of who drafted the Old Westbury initial priorities nor how or whether those priorities align with the Governor's given requirements.  Faculty were not involved with outlining the initial draft of priorities that were presented, and the origin of that draft is still unclear.  


In the current budget crisis, the lack of transparency is particularly egregious.  This is a concern of the Executive Committee and governance committees.  Faculty have expertise in their disciplines and in matters of curriculum and instruction.  To fulfill our obligations as faculty under the Board of Trustee Policies, we request the administration to ensure a process that enables more meaningful and substantive faculty consultation including the following items:


1/ When call for proposals or changes to budget conditions that could potentially impact the College's educational program are received by Academic Affairs or the President's Office, the original text be immediately shared with pertinent bodies of Faculty Governance together with other relevant information for feedback.


2/ Informative related documents be provided in advance of meetings where they will be discussed.


3/ Pertinent bodies of Faculty Governance be involved with crafting priorities and drafting a response from an initial stage, rather than reviewing it afterward on an even shorter deadline.


The Faculty Senate Executive Committee is currently drafting a Senate resolution encapsulating the items outlined above.  We hope to build a relationship of excellence in consultation, built on mutual cooperation and respect, as we shepherd our campus community through a period of positive change moving forward.