STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, March 19th, 2021








Faculty Senate Chair’s Report 


* Current and upcoming governance priorities 


1. Middle States Virtual Site Visit


2. Nominations for Faculty Governance Committees


3.  2.0 GPA Policy for Residential Students


4. Bylaws revisions - Budget Planning Committee


5. Task force for remote learning in Fall 2021


6. Task force for strengthening full time faculty


7. American Rescue Plan Act














































  







Go Panthers!
















  







Play ball!






We invite you and your family to the celebration of the Persian New Year (Nowruz) on Saturday, March 27 at 6:30 PM on Zoom: 615 742 1282 Nowruz is celebrated and observed by the Persians and 13 countries around the world officially. Nowruz marks the first day of spring and the beginning of the New Year. The Nowruz Concert Features Amir Vahab and his Ensemble. The New York Times calls Amir Vahab the "ambassador for a silenced music." Honored as a peacemaker and virtuoso, Amir Vahab is one of New York’s most celebrated and distinguished composer/vocalist of Sufi and folk music. The virtuoso of Amir weaves fiery instrumentals and songs of the historic lands of the Middle East and Central Asia. His work transcends political boundaries while maintaining traditional sensibilities in a way few artists can manage. Amir Vahab's music is rooted in tradition but has been influenced by contemporary sounds. Like Amir himself, his music symbolizes diversity-in-unity. His performances have been recognized worldwide and have inspired many music students. Amir Vahab is currently teaching and lecturing private and group classes in universities, libraries, museums and cultural centers. He also organizes music therapy and sound healing workshops. www.tanbour.org Amir Vahab and his Ensemble will perform "Sufi songs of Love" selected from the poetry of the great Sufi Masters Rumi, Hafez, Yunus and Baba Taher. The lively folk and traditional music featuring the ethereal sounding Ney (mystical reed flute), Tar, (Instrument of Lovers), Oud (the short neck lute), Tanbour (The ancient sacred lute), Saz (seven-stringed long neck lute), Daf (large frame drum associated with Sufi rituals) and Tombak (Persian goblet drum). The concert concludes with a dynamic drumming performance that echoes the universal heartbeat of existence.