Can you help us provide a response to the following inquiry from another campus? 
If you can help, please contact me, thanks !


Our campus has been told that we are no longer allowed to write our own lab manuals and sell them at our bookstore.
 
My question is, do any of your campus departments, sciences or otherwise, write their own lab manuals and sell them on campus?
 
Any information is appreciated!


Meetings Modality for Next semester


I have booked MPR rooms for next semester!  This will provide an in-person option for those of us who wish to join.  Zoom option will also be provided.  When requesting AV services I learned that the college has recently gotten 2 additional wireless microphones for hybrid meetings in MPR rooms.  Next semester we will need to be very aware that people speaking in-person will use the microphones so zoom participants can also hear.  Thanks in advance.


Based on the survey results below, the MPR rooms are currently requested to accommodate up to 40 people in a big square/circle configuration.  


The Executive Committee has also discussed using Senate funds to provide some refreshments for in-person participants.  I know some of us are very eager to resume in-person social time, so we hope to be able to provide that.  To support refreshments we may also resume asking for donations to support Senate, which we have not done in many years.  


Modality Survey Results
Spring 2023 Survey on Faculty Senate & Full Faculty Meeting Modality Preferences
82 responses




  



  



  





Do you face any barriers in attending Faculty Senate and Full Faculty meetings in person in Spring 2023? If yes, what barriers?
	Commute time.
	No.
	childcare
	Health
	I am a commuter. Travel to the campus from the city on Fridays will affect my budget and salary since LIRR tickets are expensive.
	If I catch covid, it could nean death for me or my loved one , CDC site supports this.  without mandating masks at meetings or providing a zoom option you are denying me and others like me the opportunity to participate in faculty governance.   this is unjust and ableist.
	I have a profound hearing loss which can make in-person meetings difficult for me.  Being able to attend the meetings virtually allows me to take advantage of closed captions and lack of background noise.
	No, I'm on campus nearly every day.
	It seems unnecessary to spend the time and money commuting to OW on Friday when zoom provides a great forum to accomplish the same results.
	I would come if one meeting per term was fully in person, but probably not if it is a blended/ hyper-flex meeting. It is a drag to commute for hours to still be on zoom with so many people. 
	The only barrier is having other meetings on the same day before and after which are virtual so driving to the campus will kill time for those meetings.
	limited time and safety concern for many people staying in one room
	not really barriers -- it is just that driving to campus on a Friday for one meeting is a "day killer" (when considering the the time in traffic, etc., and fact that other meetings are held in Zoom, and Fridays I usually try to spend some time on scholarship or other non-teaching responsibilities)
	no
	no
	Childcare. The meetings should not happen near times when faculty and staff have to drop off and pick up their kids from school. Also, on Fridays Long Island has the worst midday to evening traffic. No one wants to sit in hours of traffic following a 2 hour Faculty Senate meeting. Make people's lives easier and stick to virtual Faculty Senate meetings as you get more participation and productive work. Remain in the modern technology world.
	High risk of complications if I were to get COVID.  
	My wife is immunosuppressed and I have to be ultra-careful to avoid Covid.
	Traveling to campus just to attend a senate meeting is costly in both terms of time and money.
	Long commute
	COVID IS NOT OVER YET!
	the extra commute
	Not sure if my responses count as I am not a member of the faculty or the senate. But I will attend any meeting in any modality if invited. Thank you
	Commuting on Friday
	The campus shuttle from Hicksville train station is absolutely horrible. It doesn't run nearly often or regularly enough. Admin has not been responsive to complaints. This is the #1 reason why I would not attend in-person meetings. The miserable shuttle makes it an all-day affair and a horrible hassle. 
	no
	The only barrier is time 
	No
	I live with my 92, soon to be 93, year old uncle. He has cancer and is on chemotherapy. I am avoiding all large in-person meetings that I can possibly avoid. If meeting remotely is no longer an option, I may have to resign my senate seat. Also, I am not satisfied with the options to answer question #3. If food and refreshments are available, people will be unmasked while eating and drinking. This WOULD discourage me from meeting in person even more than I am already discouraged.
	why are we eating and drinking when a pandemic is on...I love the idea, but can't stand that we've jettisoned science and public health in our relationships on campus.
	Work creep and scheduling around personal schedule. Having the zoom option allows me to listen in and work around all of my other responsibilities.
	working remote under ADA Accommodations given by HR
	I cannot provide attendance estimate but I can say for certain that I am more likely to attend if meetings are kept virtual. Schedule conflict is more likely if I have to commute and I will stay away from in-person meetings if I feel unwell or fear COVID spread. Virtual meetings are more practical - it is much easier to read visual aid materials. The only issue I have in virtual meetings is "vote by acclamation" (which is actually not vote) practice.
	easier to pay attention and be accessabel if needed.
	None.
	No
	My commute to campus is over 1.5 hours each way (over 3 hours total). That's a lot of time that I"m losing to driving when I have so much other work instead. 
	I'm an administrator and I find it very helpful to be able to listen in on the Faculty Senate and FF meetings on Zoom, so I can monitor what's going on with the faculty and occasionally contribute to the discussions without needing to commit my full attention for the full duration of the meetings since they often include segments that are of interest and to which I can contribute but also include others that really don't pertain to me.  BTW, I think that the Zoom option has also increased faculty participation in governance significantly; it's broken down the old MW vs. TR and Never on  Friday (or at least only when absolutely necessary) pattern from pre-Covid.
	I hope that virtual Senate meetings will continue to be an option for those of us who have barriers to coming to campus (covid concerns, childcare issues, etc). 
	No
	Other service responsibilities make it nearly impossible for me to attend in-person. Given the increased interest and engagement since we moved to virtual meetings, please continue with this for accessibility and continued engagement. 
	Childcare responsibilities 
	N/a
	Would like to attend but other meetings require follow-up.  Traffic if I leave campus too late - gets worse as weather improves.
	Other meetings and commitments.
	No
	health concern
	long drive to campus; I can get a lot more work done in my home office before and after meetings when they are held via zoom.
	There's no reason I couldn't attend in person, but I don't have any other reason to be on campus on Fridays.
	Commuting time. I would resign rather than be forced to attend in person. 
	None
	Covid infections 
	Student meetings and advising, classroom observations 
	I commute and it takes up the whole day to go into campus. I’m not sure there is any consideration about how many hours we put into our jobs, we are always wanting more and more time commitment, but scholarship and research suffer as a result. Do we actually value faculty time? I’m not sure we do.
	Distance and child care. Mental health as well. 
	Have other jobs/meetings off campus and a disability. Online format would be a much more inclusive/accommodating modality for me.
	competition with other commitments
	No
	None. 
	Commuting to campus over an hour each way makes in-person meetings prohibitively time-wasting - better to attend virtually for 2 hours and use the rest of my time (and gas money) productively.
	Hard to be available for in-person meetings on Fridays
	No barriers, just prefer the benefits and convenience of doing them virtual.
	Meetings are too long, the virtual option allows me to do my work and listen in.
	Maternity Leave
	None.
	There are no barriers to attending Full Faculty in person. I don't plan to participate in Faculty Senate meetings next semester. 
	Teach Remotely
	the time of the meeting
	just the hassles of commuting, but they are more than compensated for by the value of a meeting with actual people, in person.
	It is more convenient to attend via zoom.  If they could have a live stream zoom even if it's taking place in person, I would probably login to stay up to date.
	No
	N/A
	n/a
	No
	None
	other commitments on Friday
	Meeting length too long to be away from office. 
	It is clear that Senate does not need to meet in person. Participation during meetings is no different, and arguably better when meeting on Zoom (due to chat option and greater attendance). Admins like to have bodies in rooms because it helps them feel like leaders with a flock. It is a selfish and personal preference, not needed for actual productivity. If admins really cared about faculty QoL, they would be thrilled that a Zoom option allows for greater participation in the governance process, and gives faculty the option to use that lengthy (expensive) commute time for other productive activities such as teaching and research responsibilities. And, from a public health standpoint, this is still a pandemic and SO MANY people continue to suffer from COVID. It is still a widely variable, everchanging, and mysterious virus. Note that on Q3 of this survey, I could not choose "discourage." I still wear my mask in class and participate in few leisure social activities indoors. One in five covid cases have lingering symptoms for longer than 2 months. Brain fog is one of them and we need our damn brain to do our jobs! https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/pressroom/nchs_press_releases/2022/20220622.htm and https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2022/10/12/long-covid-study-scotland/
	No
	No, but find that remote meetings tend to be efficient and more environmentally friendly by cutting on unnecessary vehicular transmissions. 
	Mainly financial - the train is $15 roundtrip every time I go to campus. 
	Not at the moment