Timekeeping website for today’s meeting 
https://coda.io/@dambroisej/ow-faculty-and-senate-meeting-interactions
 
PRODiG Committee has three tenured and one other vacancy.
For additional details about the purpose and background of the committee, please refer to the SPRING 2021 PRODIG RESOLUTION.  This committee requires that self-nominated faculty submit an appropriate summary blurb addressing the committee requirements.  Committee requirements are outlined here in the submission form.  The form is DUE Friday Sept 9th.  
For those of you who previously submitted a blurb last year, don't hesitate to request for your previous submission to be considered -- no problem, just let me know! 


Appointments
Nominations & Elections (N&E) Committee
* Sara Williamson (Chair), Mohamed Khalefa, and Marty Cooper were appointed


LEC Diversity Domain
* Laura Angyal was appointed


Summer Updates
During the summer I coordinated with committee chairs about annual reports, and also with offices on campus (police, student affairs, title ix) in order to arrange for important safety and other updates to the Senate and Faculty meetings (see current and upcoming agenda(s)).


Strategic planning (SP) is underway!  This is exciting, and we will hear from the SP soon regarding events they are planning to get input from the community.


UUP has N95 masks available, contact Martha Livingston.


Masking Concerns
Recently President Sams announced a change in the mask policy. Old Westbury is now "mask optional" in classrooms at the discretion of the instructor, while other spaces such as health care facilities and busses require masks. Individuals experiencing symptoms must wear a mask and isolate if they test positive. The full mask policy is available at
https://www.oldwestbury.edu/covid


We are collecting any concerns about the new mask policy from faculty and staff. Please fill out the form as soon as you can -- all faculty/staff are welcome to fill it out. 
Note: the survey is anonymous.
https://forms.office.com/r/2b8DxGfYX2
The deadline for this survey is WED SEPT 14.


NOTE: The recording of Chief Siena’s safety training from today’s meeting will be distributed today via email, and again re-emphasized during the Full Faculty meeting.